---
layout: post
title: Twins 3 White Sox 1
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}
author: FunBobby
---
Huge win today.  Nothing like breaking a mini-slump by beating the team that is in first place.  Boof looked good tonight. He kept his pitch count under control, I was shocked when the count was only in the 70s and it was the 6th inning.  Some of his outs were really loud, but he made them miss a lot: 8 ks.  People have been knocking Boof, and I'm not sure why. He's had a few bad starts, but I think he is much better than he was in 2007. He just needs to be consistent and I will be happy. I'm not expecting him to be an ace or anything, but a lower than average era and just keeping the team in the game would be great.  That being said, I wouldn't be opposed to him becoming an ace.  Reyes looked pretty questionable, but Young made a nice (dare I say great) play in left, (I'm still not really sure how he caught the ball) and a heads up throw to the cutoff man (are you listening Gomez, <em>to</em> the cutoff man, not past him) who then nailed Swisher at first, by quite a bit. Nathan was Nathan and looked very good.

The bats had one good inning. If I recall, we also had some loud outs. Mauer stung the ball really well in his second or third at bat but it was right at Swisher, and Kubel did the same late in the game. I'm glad to see Mauer hitting the ball like the Mauer of old again. That was a nice triple in the first (I blame Swisher for the extra base more than I credit Mauer, but who cares).  There was a decent article in the Star Tribune today about Mauer hitting for power versus average. If he wants to hit lots of jacks, he is going to have to change that pretty inside out swing of his, which will result in lower average. I don't want that. I will take high average, high OBP, and lots of doubles. I think Morneau and Kubel can provide the deep ball from the left side with Cuddyer, and Young (hopefully) providing power from the right side. I was surprised to see that Kuble is only hitting 247 on the year. I was under the impression that he was tearing it up, but I think he has had lots of big hits, but  has had few multi hit games. Which is something you need to do to raise your average and keep it high. Especially early on.

On a different note, has anyone else noticed how gimicky Twins games are?  Its been a while since I've been to another stadium, but it seems like in between every inning there is some sponsored contest or give away. Its almost like the Saints or something. I went to a Cubs game and a White sox game and I don't recall seeing that much crap between innings. Especially at the Cubs game. My guess is the Twins, due to the dome, are much more desperate to get people in the seats so they need promo crap.  I had never really noticed it, until my buddy who I was with who grew up going to games at Camden in Baltimore, pointed it out.  I really hope it goes away when the Team moves to the new stadium and will be able to get fans to the stadium just to see a game and enjoy (or hide from) the weather. Not because they will have a chance to win a Mystic Lake prize package, or Treasure Island or whatever.
