---
layout: post
title: ! 'Impotent Lineup: Maybe the Twins Need to Watch Those Viagra/Levitra/Cialis
  Commercials'
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  dsq_thread_id: ''
author: sirsean
---
Nick Blackburn looked fantastic tonight, going 7 innings and giving up only 1 run on 5 hits, 1 walk, and recording six strike outs. I don't think we could have expected him to do any better ... especially considering the way the run finally scored in the 7th inning: infield single, sacrifice bunt, advanced on a groundout, scored on a wild pitch. That's a pretty well-manufactured run.<br /><br />But given the lineup Gardy saw fit to trotting out there, one thing could be expected: the Twins weren't going to score in this game. Not only did they not score, only one baserunner advanced past first base (Punto, who stole second and advanced to third on an error). The only other baserunner who was actually stranded on base was Cuddyer; everyone else was either caught stealing or doubled up in one of the four double plays we grounded into. And <i>all</i> of them were to the second baseman.<br /><br />The Twins combined for all of 29 plate appearances. I just wanted to write that explicitly. There are 27 outs in a game ... and we only had 29 batters.<br /><br />There's not too much to say about this game. The Twins just didn't hit. I realize we were facing a left handed pitcher and it's a day game tomorrow, but by taking Mauer, Kubel, and Lamb out of the lineup, the offense becomes just about as impotent as possible. <br /><br />Gardy made just a couple of questionable moves:<br /><ul><li>Why bat Harris second? While it's promising that he doesn't consider the 2nd spot "the catcher's," and just put Redmond there ... Harris isn't much of a #2 hitter. It would probably have been better to just push Cuddyer/Morneau/Young up a spot and put Harris between Punto and Tolbert at the bottom of the order.</li><li>Why let Tolbert bat against K-Rod in the 9th when Kubel/Mauer/Lamb are on the bench? I realize Tolbert walked and then was doubled up by Mauer, but that doesn't change the fact that a slap hitting utility infielder with 3 major league at bats led off an inning against an elite right handed closer while 3 good left handed hitters sat idle on the bench.</li></ul>Finally ... Gomez. He attempted 5 bunts tonight, and all 5 of them went foul. Including the last one, which counted as a strike out in the 9th inning. Gardy has repeatedly said that Gomez needs to learn the game and that as he does, "things will be interesting out there." Well, that was clearly a bone headed move by Gomez. The question I have is this:<br /><br />Will Gardy manage to teach Gomez the proper thing to do without castrating his exciting offensive personality? Will Gomez still be allowed to use the bunt as a weapon, but be restricted only from using it with 2 strikes, or will Gardy completely muzzle him? How angry is Gardy going to be at Gomez, compared to the rest of the hitless team?<br /><br />Just something to keep an eye on.<br />
