---
layout: post
title: Twins 7, O's 5
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}
author: FunBobby
---
Nice little win the team put together last night.  Perkins looked pretty terrible but somehow managed to <em>only</em> give up five runs in five innings. The way they were hitting the ball I thought it would be seven or eight.  Boof's 2 2/3 shutout innings were huge because he came out firing strikes and the offense could rest easy that they wouldn't be down by more than five the next time they came up. 

I really like wins like this. Where the team chips away at a defecit. Nothing fancy, not a grand slam, or all the runs in one inning. We stopped the bleeding early, and for the second half of the game we had the O's right where we want them.  (Sidenote: Why are they called the O's? Is that an acceptable nickname for an Oriole? Why aren't the Twins called the "T's" or the Yankees the "Y's". Same goes for the Celtics being called the "C's". Is this laziness, lack of creativity or both.) Back to the game. Getting two runs back in the second was huge too, because it showed we weren't going to roll over and die for Cabrera kind of like we did for Liz the previous night.

Great showing for the 'pen, nothing like 4 guys (thats 4 if you count Reyes as a full person) combining for 5 shuout innings with only 2 baserunners.  I was shocked at how easily Boof was getting guys out after every ball hit when Slowey pitched was hit really hard.  I think Boof will thrive as a middle reliever, he doesn't seem to have the mental makeup or the stamina to be a starting pitcher.  He proved last night he can probably still get guys out, which I like because I have always liked Boof, even when he was terrible. I think that is probably because I am just fresh out of hatred after using it all on Nick Punto. 

Good to see Mauer hit another moonshot last night. Can we call them moonshots in the dome since we are inside, and we can't see the moon so therefore can't judge if the ball is headed that way? Whatever. I remember saying earlier in the year that the only time Mauer pulls the ball is when he grounds out to the second baseman. Have teams not realized that he hits lefties <em>better</em> than righties? Because he does.

Today we have Scott Baker going at noon. Should be a productive day at work.
