---
layout: post
title: Gardy on KFAN (1/24/2007)
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}
author: FunBobby
---
Yesterday afternoon Gardy appeared on KFAN answering numerous twins related questions.  Most of it was things we have discussed before, such as Gardy trying to find a place for Punto (because he "knows how to catch the ball"), and Cuddyer in center because "its easy to track down balls from center".  He also said that Kubel's knees were fine. Gardy said he had "no problem putting an offensive lineup on the field". What does that mean, did he have a problem doing it last year? According to the results he did.  Anytime you have Punto in the lineup it can't be considered an offensive lineup, well it can depending on your interpretation of offensive.  An outfield of (L to R) Kubel, Cuddyer, and Young is not acceptable.  Kubel needs to spend most of his time at the DH position because his knees are worse than Jake Taylor's in Major League, and Jason is only 25.

I'm also not sure how i feel about Gardy insisting he wanted to keep Santana. I understand that as a manager you would love to write Johan's name in ink at the top of the rotation, but should he really be breaking ranks on this issue. All top brass in the organization should keep with the same story.  Everyone wants to keep Santana, but when the manager says something like "I really want to have Johan as my opening day starter" he could lead fans to believe that he is working to undermine management in their efforts to get the best possible package for the best pitcher in the game.  Since I don't believe anything Ronnie says, I don't have a problem with it. However, this could confuse some people, and this situation is already confusing enough as it is.
