---
layout: post
title: Much ado about pitching, and other Thursday morning musings
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '3'
author: FunBobby
---
Well, CC Sabbathia and K-Rod (quite possibly the worst nickname ever) are off the books.  Both are headed to NYC for mega-bucks.  The Mets also swung a three team trade last night to get JJ Putz, another closer, to bolster their bullpen.  It looks as though Minaya is trying to go from worst bullpen in the league to best by throwing money (and prospects) at the problem.  We'll see if it works.  Rodriguez has to be close to breaking down, at the very least he is due for a DL stint.  Maybe that is why the traded for Putz, insurance.  He is only one year removed from an all-star appearance and 40 saves.  Not a bad setup man to have.

Now that I have gone one paragraph without mentioning the Twins for the first time in my life, lets talk about the hometown team.  It seems as though every potential trade partner wants Kevin Slowey, and understandably so.  My question is, aren't we just one year removed from Nick Blackburn being named the number one prospect in one of the most pitching rich farm systems in the AL?  He put together a decent, at worst, major league season and now people are sour on him?  I know that Slowey is better, but what is wrong with Blackburn?  He is older, so maybe GMs think he has peaked and there is no potential left?  I guess that is fair.  I suppose I'm just frustrated that in order to get a potentially decent (or just as likely bad) position player (Kouzmanoff, Atkins, Beltre) you need to give up a potentially great (or at worst league average) starting pitcher.  League average starting pitching might be one of the most valuable commodities in the game.  Look at how much guys like Silva, Lohse, and Jeff Suppan make.  I get that prospects are worth more than money, but these players we are talking about aren't prospects.  If a league average pitcher is worth 12mil/year (Silva), hey Padres, why not trade for a 12mil/year pitcher who actually costs you close to league minimum and you give us Kevin Kouzmanoff, who you won't be able to afford in a few years because your owner got divorced and is broke.  Obviously, I'm biased. 

Has anyone else noticed that if a random team like the Nationals wanted to get a player similar to Kouzmanoff, they would have to give up next to nothing (literally, probably a PTBNL), while the Twins have to give up a Major League starter.  It happened with Delmon Young,  the Nats got Dukes for literally nothing, while we gave up Matt Garza plus our starting SS.  Is this all the GMs taking advantage of us now that the big, bad bully Terry Ryan is gone?  Or is Bill Smith just a bad GM?

This next issue touches on some of what we covered yesterday, sort of.  Does anyone else think it might be time to infuse some new blood into the front office.  Everyone up there has been with the Twins since the start of their career and they seem to have adopted a group think mentality.  They don't know how to run a baseball team any differently than "stay away from power hitters" and all the other organizational philosophies that we have discussed.  I'm not saying "fire Bill Smith, and hire some hall of fame GM from a different organization" but maybe lets add some new (possibly stat oriented guys to mix things up) people at the assistant GM level.  Its basic principles of management that group think can be very dangerous for an organization.  Lets mix things up, why get complacent? Why not find new, creative ways to improve on our already semi-successful formula.  A move like this is by no means drastic, nor will it change things really quickly, but I think its best for an organization that is in need of some change.
