---
layout: post
title: Now What?
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '3'
author: FunBobby
---
Well, the Twins have played 162 games and their fate is still TBD.  The White Sox host the Tigers this afternoon (1:05 central) in a makeup game from earlier this month.  If the Sox lose, the division is ours. If they win, we play in Chicago tomorrow to determine the final playoff spot in the AL.  The winner of that game heads to Tampa (actually St. Petes) to play the (Devil) Rays.  If my math (not California math, real math) is correct the Twins will be starting Nick Blackburn, unless Slowey is able to pitch.  Looks like the White Sox will start John Danks, who last pitched (poorly) against the Indians on Friday.  He will be on short rest, which benefits the Twins. Although he only pitched 4 innings on Friday night.  I would prefer Slowey, but if he isn't healthy I guess we really have no choice.  The bullpen should be rested after Baker went 7 strong yesterday and an off day today. 

Playing in Chicago is not ideal of course, but us having the off day today and the White Sox not having one plays in our favor.  I am not wild about the matchup, that is why we need to cheer really hard for the Tigers.  The only thing they have to play for is a tie for last place, instead of occupying the cellar solo.  Finishing <em>behind </em>the Royals is pretty much the worst outcome to a season, so maybe they will want to win.  Or maybe they will get a kick out of messing up a divisional rivals playoff chances.  Who knows, but I just hope they don't mail it in an conceede defeat before the first pitch.

Another question I have is why is there even is a "tie-breaker" game?  Why doesn't the team with the better record head to head just win the division? I'm not just saying this because the Twins won.  A tie-breaker should only be played if the season series is split. 

Go Tigers!
