---
layout: post
title: 1 day, 1.5 games
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '3'
  dsq_thread_id: '187148496'
author: FunBobby
---
After being swept in a doubleheader by the red-hot Blue Jays the White Sox sit just one game above the Twins with 18 games to go.  This is a huge morale boost.  The White Sox face Roy Halladay and he is awesome.  Also, Paul Konerko went down with what looked like a serious injury, I usually don't wish harm upon other players, but the White Sox hardly consist of "players", more like 25 "satan incarnates" and its OK to wish harm upon satan incarnate.   With Quentin formally out for the season, and Konerko probably done for most of the year, the Twins probably had their best 24 hours all season.  It is important that we just keep focusing on our own games.  I get the feeling that on that road trip (and the tigers series) the team focused too much on what the Sox were doing, and not enough on what the Twins were doing.  As hard as it is to do, its time to put the blinders on.  We have no control over what the White Sox do (until we play them).  They are now relying on Ken Griffey, Jr. to be an impact bat in their lineup, which is something no team should have to do.  The man is old, and I think they were expecting him to pick up some slack for the stretch run, not carry the offense.

The Twins have a stretch of six games (including last night) against the Royals and the O's, so hopefully we play like we did last night for all six of them.  I still don't trust the bullpen, but playing weak lineups should allow our starters to get into the 7th inning, thus minimizing how often we have to use worthless Reyes and/or Crain.  I still don't get why Gardy isn't using the September call-ups.  Last night for example, we are up by 5, why bring in a terribly overworked Jesse Crain instead of Humber or someone else?  Its a relatively low-leverage situation (I guess five runs isn't a huge lead) and the Royals have a very weak lineup, perfect for a young pitcher to face. 

The Twins have an off-day before they start that crucial series against the Sox in a few weeks, so hopefully we will use that to our advantage.  Apparently having that off-day at home on Monday helped the team immensely.  It should be a fun next few weeks, Go Twins!
