---
layout: post
title: 2009, a lot like....2008?
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '3'
  dsq_thread_id: '161114879'
author: FunBobby
---
So the winter meetings are over, and the Twins pretty much did nothing.  Except talk about trading one of our youngest, most talented hitters.  Not cool, Bill.  So here is how I would like to see the lineup for 2009:
<ol>
	<li>Span, RF</li>
	<li>Casilla, 2B</li>
	<li>Mauer, C</li>
	<li>Morneau, 1B</li>
	<li>Young, LF</li>
	<li>Kubel, DH</li>
	<li>Buscher/Harris, 3B</li>
	<li>Punto, SS (until he gets hurt by memorial day and is replaced)</li>
	<li>Gomez, CF</li>
</ol>
That is basically the same lineup as last season, which is fine.  Notice I left out Cuddyer.  He really hasn't done much to deserve a starting spot.  He can compete for an outfield spot, and take some DH at bats against really tough lefties.  I'm still convinced Delmon Young can put it together.  I might flip him with Kubel.  I'm not 100% sold on RLRL...., but sometimes its necessary, with the specialization and bullpens and whatnot.  Obviously things can trade if we decide to trade away our extra outfielder (since depth is a bad thing, apparently) or move somebody for a thirdbaseman, which I don't think is neccessary.  The Buscher/Harris platoon really started clicking towards the end of the season.

On another note, I don't think we should forgive Gardy just because he retracted his "delmon young isn't going to start next year" statement.  I'm pretty sure Bill Smith made him issue that retraction.  So it doesn't count.  Managers should never be forgiven for forgetting the players on their team.  But that is in the (recent) past, so lets move on.

Anyone else have any thoughts on lineup projections?  Do you think Gardy will rotate four outfielders, or pick three and have one come off the bench?  Will Span regress to the point where he is either no longer in the majors or isn't good enough to be a starter and will fill the "Lew Ford roving outfielder" role?  Is it baseball season yet?
