---
layout: post
title: Payroll, Joe Mauer, and the 20% Myth
tags:
- Opinion
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '3'
author: FunBobby
---
I was reading <a href="http://blogs2.startribune.com/blogs/neal/2009/12/01/tuesday-update-2/">LaVelle's blog</a> this morning and there was a friendly discussion in the comments (that isn't sarcasm, the commenters were actually nice to each other unlike most comment wars on blogs) about whether or not its OK to spend 20% of your payroll on one person. Obviously it came up in regards to Joe Mauer.  LaVelle mentioned in one of his comments that the "rule" started when the Indians didn't want to pay Manny 20% of their payroll so they let him walk to Boston.

I think if the Twins are willing to have their payroll in the 100 million dollar range, they can afford to pay Mauer 20-25 a year.  I see no reason why the payroll cannot be $100 million.  I'm sure there are some Twins fans who want to win the "Twins way" which is by spending no money, but we now have this fancy new stadium and are ready to play with the big boys.  Minneapolis is by no means a "small market", small market has just become synonymous with "poor".  We are one of the few metropolitan areas that has all four major sports. The others being: Chicago, Boston, New York, LA,Dallas, Denver, and Washington, DC.  (Might have missed a few, but you get my point).  The Twins used to be classified as a small market team because they got almost no revenue out of the dome, now they will have a cash cow in Target Field and should spend a good chunk of that money on Joe Mauer. 

I know a ton of Twins fans take solace in the fact that when we lose its only because the Yankees spend more money.  Well, they will always spend more money than us so they can continue to do so if it helps them sleep at night.  I for one would be happier if we lost because our GM or manager made bad moves.  You can fire them.  You can't fire the owners.  The best thing for an owner to do is open up their pocketbooks and let the baseball people work. If Bill Smith says he can win a world series with 80 million, then give him 80.  If he says he needs 100 then give him 100.

So give Mauer 20% of our payroll, but we need our payroll to be north of 100 million to compete for a World Series title.  That is regardless of whether or not Joe Mauer is on the team.  It is just a reality of the game in this day and age.
