---
layout: post
title: Liriano
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '2'
author: sirsean
---
With Liriano entering his second year since Tommy John surgery, the expectation for him would be that he rebounds significantly as pitchers tend to do. In 2006 he was absolutely dynamite, and AL hitters simply had no answer for his arsenal of fastball and deadly slider. But, as Buster Olney reports, <a href="http://insider.espn.go.com/espn/blog/index?entryID=3947948&amp;searchName=olney_buster&amp;campaign=rsssrch&amp;source=olney_buster">Liriano's more of a complete pitcher now</a>:
<blockquote>Francisco Liriano's delivery always will have mechanical potholes, the kind of flaws that can wreck the undercarriage of a long, prosperous career. The Minnesota left-hander already has had reconstructive elbow surgery, and because of the way he relies on his slider and the way he sometimes fails to finish his delivery, he probably will always be at greater risk than most pitchers.

But Rick Anderson, the Twins' pitching coach, feels Liriano's delivery has improved, and that the young pitcher has gained an understanding of his own mechanics and how he can use his slider. "Instead of throwing that slider 45 times in a game, he'll throw it 20 times in a game," Anderson said Monday morning before going to oversee a Liriano bullpen session.

It used to be that when Liriano got backed into a corner, Anderson said, he immediately leaned on the slider, his crutch, and threw it three times. But more and more, Liriano has used his changeup, and Anderson feels that because of the lefty's effort to diversify his repertoire, he has developed a pretty good change, a pitch he can use in a tough spot instead of the slider.

"He's more of a complete pitcher now than he was," Anderson said. "He's got more of an understanding of his own mechanics.

"Look, he's always going to have a violent delivery. … Every once in a while, he'll go back in his mechanics and it's still going to be violent. We're still trying to get him to finish off his pitches consistently, rather than cutting his delivery off. But he's better."

Much better than he was a year ago, in Anderson's eyes. Early in the 2008 season, Anderson did not see Liriano working with much confidence, and after the 25-year-old went 0-3 with an 11.32 ERA in April, the Twins sent him to the minors for the next three months. There was much public debate in the Twin Cities about whether the team waited too long to summon him to the big leagues, but after seeing Liriano pitch upon his return, Anderson is sure of this: Liriano benefited from his time in Triple-A. "You could see his confidence back," Anderson said.</blockquote>
I don't know what to expect from Liriano. It's hard to expect him to be back to his 2006 form, since that was just so dominating. And A big part of the reason for his success was that when he got into a tough spot he leaned so heavily on that slider: three straight sliders that look like fastballs until they disappear is a damn good way to rack up strikeouts.

We've been hearing for over a year that his changeup has made big strides and that it'll be a good major league pitch. But we don't really know how it's going to work out yet.

Baseball Prospectus has even more misgivings about Liriano, projecting a 4.16 ERA, 1.34 WHIP, and just 7.0 K/9. And their "best possible projection," the 90% percentile, has him at just a 3.09 ERA, 1.18 WHIP, and 7.3 K/9. In PECOTA's eyes, the days of Liriano being a dominant pitcher are gone, and the most we can now hope for is a solid middle of the rotation guy who doesn't strike that many people out any more.

It should not be surprising that even though I have misgivings that we'll see a return to 2006 (2.16 ERA, 1.00 WHIP, 9.4 K/9), I am nowhere near that pessimistic.

Given how good he looked for his final 10 starts in AAA last year and how good he was in his second stint with the Twins to end the 2008 season, I think we can expect him to be pretty good. And while I agree with Anderson that he benefited from that time in AAA, if we'd brought him up just a <em>little</em> bit earlier, and replaced one or two of Livan's 8 run in three innings piles of shit with a Liriano performance, we'd probably have made the playoffs last year. It's hard to argue that the Twins made the right decision the keep Liriano down there that long.

But now he's with the big club, and presumably is there to stay. Replacing 25 sliders per game with changeups, he'll be a considerably different pitcher -- but will he be as good?
