---
layout: post
title: Twins 4 Tribe 3
tags:
- Game Recaps
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '3'
author: FunBobby
---
Kevin Slowey was cruising for 6+ innings last night, until things got bumpy in the 7th.  I blame Robby Incmikowski (or whatever the hell his name is) for this.  For those of you who weren't watching the FSN telecast, after the sixth inning Incmikowski said something along the lines of  "Kevin Slowey now has his sixth consecutive quality start in the books"  Not if he gives up 4 runs in the seventh he doesn't.  What a jerk.

The homer Mijaresgave up was unfortunate, but Vic Martinez is a great hitter from both sides of the plate so I don't think its an issue.  At least there was nobody on base. 

The Twins again featured a lineup that had more black holes than I care to count (four) at the bottom.  Hopefully Cuddyer and Crede come back soon.  Then we will have a lineup that looks something like this:
<ol>
	<li>Span</li>
	<li>Mauer</li>
	<li>Morneau</li>
	<li>Kubel</li>
	<li>Cuddyer</li>
	<li>Crede</li>
	<li>Harris</li>
	<li>Free out, I mean second base.</li>
	<li>Gomez</li>
</ol>
As much as I want to like him, we can no longer put Young in the lineup.  He is simply over matchedby even mediocre major league pitching.  Gomez has shown both on the field an in the stats book that he makes up for his inability at the plate with his exceptional defense.

Once again Joe Mauer has proved he is the second coming.  Speaking of Joe, was anyone else bewildered (upset?) that Ullger held Mauer up at third (I don't recall which inning it was, I think it was the third)?  He was about halfway home and running at full speed and Ullger throws up the stop sign.  If I were Mauer I probably would have kept going.  At the very least it would have been a close play at the plate.

If Harris isn't the starting shortstop for the forseeable future Gardy and I will have words.

In other news, check out the sweet new <a href="http://minnesota.twins.mlb.com/news/article.jsp?ymd=20090602&amp;content_id=5102018&amp;vkey=ballpark_min&amp;fext=.jsp&amp;c_id=min">Budweiser Roof Deck</a> going in at Target Field.  Looks like a great place to have a few dozen beers and watch the Twins.
