---
layout: post
title: Twins 10 A's 5
tags:
- Game Recaps
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '3'
author: FunBobby
---
I only watched the first six innings of the game because I was tired.  I would use this time to get on a rant about the uselessness of time zones, but I won't.   When I woke up to two text messages that read as follows:
<blockquote>This is getting ugly</blockquote>
and about 15 minutes later from another friend
<blockquote>How the hell do you go into the ninth with a ten run lead and need to call on Nathan to bail you out?</blockquote>
So I rushed to my computer to see what in God's name happened, and saw that our lovely bullpen teamed up with Baker to almost blow the game.  Now, Baker pitched very well, but I question the decision to leave him in.  You know he will give up a big inning.  It hadn't occurred through 8 innings, so by process of elimination it was going to happen in the ninth.  Why leave him in?  Why not bring in Guerrier or someone to start and finish the ninth?  What is probably a worse decision is bringing in Crain with the bases loaded.  There is no way he gets three outs without giving up a run.  No chance in hell.  This is Jesse Crain we are talking about.  Anyway, a win is a win (is a win, for some reason Gardy felt like saying it three times on the post game show which apparently FSN re-airs at 6am).  The offense looked good, especially in the sixth.  Delmon Young had his first extra base hit since April, but he still sucks.  Hopefully this Span "dizziness" thing isn't serious and we won't be without him for long. 

Who bats leadoff today? Tolbert? Gomez? Not good.  I think we need to move Mauer back to the 2 hole.  But I bet Gardy does something like Tolbert-Harris-Mauer.... Not cool.

Although I do like that Gardy admitted he might be willing to leave Harris at short and play Punto at second when he comes off the DL this weekend.

Another bit of good news: we have a late afternoon game today followed by 4 day games.  Dick mentioned that maybe redmond catches this evening (I think the game is at like 5 central time or something) then Mauer can catch Thursday afternoon and the three day games at Wrigley since he can't DH him.
