---
layout: post
title: Wednesday Notes
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '2'
author: sirsean
---
It's been a little slow in Twins-land since the owner passed away, so I'll just jot down some quick notes here.
<ul>
	<li>As long as everyone is telling the truth about Mauer's kidney surgery -- ie, that it went well, he's fine, and will be ready for the season -- I think it's great. I'm a little miffed that we weren't made aware of this allegedly lifelong problem earlier, but not nearly as miffed as I would have been had he played in the World Baseball Classic. I'm all for supporting your country and all, and I'll be watching every game I can and rooting for Team USA, but at the same time there's no way I want Mauer catching 190 games this year. It seems to me that the timing of the surgery was deliberate; he'll be ready for the season <em>and</em> gets to bow out of the WBC without actually "refusing." Nice work Joe.</li>
	<li>Over at FanGraphs.com, they've come up with something called Win Value. It essentially counts how many runs a player is worth both offensively and defensively (versus replacement level, which is significantly below average), then uses the assumption that 10 runs is equivalent to 1 win to determine how many wins above replacement a player is. Then, and this is the interesting part, they use the "market value" of a win on the free agent market (which is different each year, increasing steadily since they started measuring it) to determine the monetary value of that player in each year. The reason I bring this up is because they have <a href="http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=1857&amp;position=C">Joe Mauer pegged at $25.7 million</a> in 2008. But, in their <a href="http://www.fangraphs.com/blogs/index.php/win-values-explained-part-seven">ongoing series explaining Win Values</a>, they mention something about catcher defense: they haven't figured out how to quantify it yet, so all catchers are assumed to be average and equivalent to each other. So if the catcher is outstanding defensively (they specifically mention Joe Mauer), they'd add a full win to his total. At around $5M per win, they're essentially valuing Mauer at $30M per season. (Well, per MVP-caliber season. He's batting about .500 on those. Which is a whole lot better than most great players.) I think we need to do what we can to extend Mauer's contract as soon as possible ... otherwise we're screwed and he's going to be playing elsewhere in 2011.</li>
	<li>Former Twin and current World Series champion JC Romero was busted this week for steroid use. Upon hearing his side of the story (he bought something that wasn't labeled as bad, wasn't on any lists, got a trainer opinion, a second trainer opinion, asked the players' union about it, finally took it, then it was banned after that and he tested positive for it), I thought the 50 game suspension was pretty steep. It sounded obvious that he didn't mean to do anything wrong. I've since learned that the substance he purchased was 6-OXO, which increases testosterone, and has a label that says, essentially, "If you play a sport, this substance is probably banned in that sport." Also, he tested positive for androstenedione, of Mark McGuire fame. Romero doesn't seem that innocent any more. But overall, this sounds like another StarCaps case, where the players are trying to do their due diligence, the league and the players' union drop the ball, then they throw the players under the bus and suspend them for the league's mistakes. Nobody's in the right here, but I don't think Romero should be the one paying the full brunt of the penalties for this.</li>
	<li>The Indians, after a disappointing 2008, have been moving fast this offseason. They were involved in the 12 player mega-deal that sent JJ Putz to the Mets, they signed Kerry Wood, they acquired Mark Derosa, and now they've signed Carl Pavano. People are often disappointed and even angry that the Twins don't make more moves and try to improve the team with the same sense of desperation that the Indians seem to have right now. But that's just the thing -- the Indians reek of desperation. Wood is good, but do you really think Mauer and Morneau are incapable of winning games off him? Do you also think he'll stay healthy? Derosa, as I've mentioned before, will come crashing back down to earth now that he's out of Wrigley, and they'd regret that trade if they'd actually had to give up anything. Carl Pavano is Carl Pavano -- which means he'll make a couple of mediocre starts and get hurt. The fact that the Indians are throwing so much at the wall and trying so hard tells you exactly one thing -- that they know how good the Twins (and White Sox) are. We don't have to act with the same desperation.</li>
</ul>
That's all I've got right now. I kind of like that format. Maybe I'll do it again.
